Power BI Assignment 1
1. What do you mean by BI? Explain.
2. How Power-BI helps in BI, and how does it help Analysts? Explain.
3. Explain Descriptive analytics?
4. Explain Predictive analytics?
5. Explain perspective analytics?
6. Write five real-life questions that PowerBi can solve.

1. What do you mean by BI? Explain.
BI - Business Intelligence
Business Intelligence is a set of process , architure and techonlogy that converts raw-data in to meaning full 
information that drives in to profitable business actions.

BI has a direct impact on organization’s strategic, tactical and operational business decisions. BI supports 
fact-based decision making using historical data rather than assumptions and gut feeling.

BI tools perform data analysis and create reports, summaries, dashboards, maps, graphs, and charts to provide
users with detailed intelligence about the nature of the business.


2. How Power-BI helps in BI, and how does it help Analysts? Explain.

ans : Mainly BI have 4 steps 
Data preparation: Compiling data from multiple sources and formatting them for analysis
Data querying: Obtaining answers from datasets to answer specific data questions.
Data visualization: Creating visual representations of analysis in charts, graphs, histograms, and more for easy understanding.
Performance metrics reporting: Comparing current performance to historical data and sharing results with stakeholders for decision-making.
Data mining: Using statistics and machine learning to uncover trends in big datasets.

Power-BI has a simple drag-and-drop interface for analysts to perform such activities .

Advantage of power-bi:
To Extract insights from data no coding skills required
Democratize data insights with dashboards
Tell data stories with advanced data visualization

3. Explain Descriptive analytics?

Descriptive analytics is the process of parsing historical data to better understand the changes that have occurred in a business.
It can help to identify the areas of strength and weakness in an organization.
It is an important component of performance analysis so that managers can make 
informed strategic business decisions based on historical data.

4. Explain Predictive analytics?

 Predictive analytics is a branch of advanced analytics that makes predictions about future outcomes using historical
 data combined with statistical modeling, data mining techniques and machine learning. Companies employ predictive 
 analytics to find patterns in this data to identify risks and opportunities. Predictive analytics is often
 associated with big data and data science.
 
 5. Explain perspective analytics?
 
 Prescriptive analytics is a form of data analytics that tries to answer "What do we need to do to achieve this?"
It uses machine learning to help businesses decide a course of action based on a computer program’s predictions.
Prescriptive analytics works with predictive analytics, which uses data to determine near-term outcomes.
When used effectively, it can help organizations make decisions based on facts and probability-weighted
 projections instead of conclusions based on instinct.
 
 6. Write five real-life questions that PowerBi can solve.
 
 solution 1 :
 Gathering a huge amount of data from different sources can be an uphill task.
 Power BI helps you to access your data instantly with less manual work. 
 It can handle a huge amount of data making it easy to decipher using
 advanced visualizations. It allows you to get data from different 
 data sources by automatically connecting with them, saving you time and effort. 
 Once a report is created, you only have to hit refresh or enable a schedule refresh 
 to get real-time insights. This will prevent any human error and skewed results. 
 
 solution 2:
 FINDING SPECIFIC DATA IN LARGE DATA VOLUMES WITH POWER BI
 Power BI, providing the users with an easy search of datasets.
 Once you have imported a dataset in PBI Desktop, you can access that anytime, 
 from anywhere, as many times as you want. For instance, in the Query Editor, 
 you can go to “View” in the header and select the “Go to Column” to navigate to the column you want. 
 
 solution 3:
 DATA QUALITY
 Power BI helps you quickly identify data quality issues and provides numerous
 ways to address them. Power Query provides you with exciting features to clean 
 and prepare data for analysis. The data profiling tools can help you remove all
 the inconsistencies, null values, and data quality problems. 
 
 solution 4:
 ONLY TECH TEAMS CAN CREATE BUSINESS REPORTS
  Microsoft Power BI is a user-friendly and simple tool and can be used by anyone, even by non-experienced BI people.
  Usually, a skilled person is required to model the data, but no special skills are required in Power BI.
  So, it is quite easy to create and understand data through visualizations in Power BI. 
  
  solution 5:
  UNABLE TO FORESEE FUTURE TRENDS 
  Power BI helps in monitoring the processes of the company. It can easily spot trends with the help
  of the data gathered during monitoring. Data Analysis Expressions (DAX) provides a wide range of 
  functionalities for trends analysis. The trending AI Capabilities of Power BI help you visualize 
  the future using predictive analytics and other such big data tools. This can help businesses foresee 
  any need to recruit more employees, change a specific requirement, or further invest in technology. 

